WebTransportDatagramsWritable and friends (#44383)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/webtransportsendgroup/index.md

---
title: WebTransportSendGroup
slug: Web/API/WebTransportSendGroup
page-type: web-api-interface
browser-compat: api.WebTransportSendGroup
---

{{APIRef("WebTransport API")}}{{SecureContext_Header}} {{AvailableInWorkers}}

The **`WebTransportSendGroup`** interface of the {{domxref("WebTransport API", "WebTransport API", "", "nocode")}} represents a group of streams and datagrams whose relative send priority is prioritized as a set, based on the `sendOrder` value of each member.

`WebTransportSendGroup` is a [transferable object](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_Workers_API/Transferable_objects).

{{InheritanceDiagram}}

## Instance methods

- {{domxref("WebTransportSendGroup.getStats", "getStats()")}}

>   - : Returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with statistics aggregated across all of the {{domxref("WebTransportSendStream")}} and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable")}} objects currently associated with this group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Returns a {{jsxref("Promise")}} that resolves with an object containing statistics aggregated across all of the {{domxref("WebTransportSendStream")}} and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable")}} objects currently associated with this group.
```

## Description

Unlike for {{domxref("WritableStream")}} instances, for which the priority at which bytes are sent on different streams is implementation-dependent, a {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable")}} or {{domxref("WebTransportSendStream")}} allows you to set the priority at which bytes will be sent on each instance relative to others in the same `sendGroup`.
A send group is defined using the `WebTransportSendGroup` interface, and the relative priority is defined by the `sendOrder` property of `WebTransportDatagramsWritable` or `WebTransportSendStream` instances.

> Different groups are expected to be treated as equals for the purposes of bandwidth allocation — though again the precise way bandwidth is divided between groups depends on the implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Different groups are expected to be treated as equals during bandwidth allocation — though again, the precise way bandwidth is divided between groups depends on the implementation.
```

A `WebTransportSendGroup` is created using the `createSendGroup()` method of the {{domxref("WebTransport")}} interface.

> You can then associate it with a `WebTransportDatagramsWritable` or `WebTransportSendStream` by passing it as the `sendGroup` option when the object is created — see {{domxref("WebTransport.createUnidirectionalStream()")}}, {{domxref("WebTransport.createBidirectionalStream()")}}, and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramDuplexStream.createWritable()")}} — or by setting the object's `sendGroup` property afterwards, for example {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable.sendGroup")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can then associate it with a `WebTransportDatagramsWritable` or `WebTransportSendStream` by:

 - Passing it as the `sendGroup` option when the object is created — see {{domxref("WebTransport.createUnidirectionalStream()")}}, {{domxref("WebTransport.createBidirectionalStream()")}}, and {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramDuplexStream.createWritable()")}}.
 - Setting the object's `sendGroup` property afterwards, for example using {{domxref("WebTransportDatagramsWritable.sendGroup")}}.
```

## Examples

### Basic usage

> The example below creates a send group, then associates a unidirectional stream and the connection's outgoing datagram stream with it, giving each a `sendOrder` so that their relative priority can be compared:

Author: ```suggestion
The example below creates a send group, then associates a unidirectional stream and the connection's outgoing datagram stream with it, giving each a `sendOrder`.
Bytes on the datagram stream will be prioritized ahead of any bytes on the unidirectional stream, because they are both in the same `sendGroup` and the datagram stream has a higher `sendOrder`.
```

```js
const sendGroup = transport.createSendGroup();

const stream = await transport.createUnidirectionalStream({
  sendGroup,
  sendOrder: 1,
});

const datagrams = transport.datagrams.createWritable({
  sendGroup,
  sendOrder: 2,
});

> // Queued bytes for datagrams are sent ahead of those for stream, as the

Reviewer: I'd put this in the article text, not as a comment.

> // two share a send group and datagrams has been given the higher sendOrder.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> // two share a send group and datagrams has been given the higher sendOrder.

Author: ```suggestion
```
